PDF PAGE 1
The Open University of Israel
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science
The Chain Pair Simplification Problem under the
Continuous Fréchet Distance
Thesis submitted as partial fulfillment of the requirements
towards an M.Sc. degree in Computer Science
The Open University of Israel
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science
By
Galit Gozoltzani
Prepared under the supervision of Dr. Omrit Filtser
November 2019


PDF PAGE 2
Abstract
English abstract here.
i


PDF PAGE 3
Acknowledgements
Your text here
ii


PDF PAGE 4
Contents
1
Introduction
1
1.1
Preliminaries and problem definition . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
1.2
CPS-2F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
1.3
Contribution of this thesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8
2
Background and Previous Work
9
2.1
Similarity Measures for Curves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10
2.2
Curve Simplification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11
2.3
The Chain Pair Simplification Problem . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14
3
Discretization of the problem
17
3.1
Auxiliary points Vaux and extended curve A∗. . . . . . . . .
17
3.2
An Equivalent Discrete Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18
4
The Configuration Graph
21
4.1
State Representation and Validity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21
4.2
State Transitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
4.3
Cost Function . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
5
A Dynamic Programming Algorithm
23
5.1
Complexity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26
5.2
Proof of Correctness
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
6
Realistic Scenarios
33
iii


PDF PAGE 5
CONTENTS
iv
6.1
Overview of c-Packed Curves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
33
6.2
Complexity for c-packed Curves
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34
7
Experimental results
37
7.1
Experimental Setup and Datasets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
7.1.1
Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
39
7.1.2
Configurations compared . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
39
7.1.3
Data sets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
39
7.1.4
Choice of thresholds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
41
7.2
Feasibility and the Cost of Auxiliary Points . . . . . . . . . .
42
7.3
Results and Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
44
7.4
Simplification Quality
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
44
7.4.1
Independent simplification breaks the coupling
. . .
44
7.4.2
Continuous versus discrete joint simplification . . . .
45
7.5
Congestion, not Size, is the Binding Constraint . . . . . . . .
46
7.6
Threats to Validity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
48
8
Conclusion
50


PDF PAGE 6
List of Figures
1.1
Two structurally distinct polygonal curves occupying the
same region of the plane: a rectangular spiral (blue) wind-
ing inward, and a zig-zag curve (red) sweeping the region
from top to bottom. Although the curves are visually and
structurally very different, their Hausdorff distance dH (green
segment) is small relative to their diameter, on the order
of the winding spacing. The Hausdorff distance treats the
curves as unordered point sets, so the fact that the two traver-
sals visit the shared region in entirely different orders is in-
visible to it. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2
1.2
Comparison of independent simplification versus simulta-
neous Chain Pair Simplification (CPS). While independent
simplification (light dashed lines) minimizes internal error
by naively selecting peak vertices, it violates the synchro-
nization constraint. The simultaneous CPS (dark dashed
lines) strategically selects vertices to strictly maintain the
discrete coupling distance, demonstrating the geometric ne-
cessity of the CPS framework. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
5.1
Illustration of the continuous-to-discrete mapping in the Com-
pleteness Lemma. As the dog advances to vertex A[pk+1]
on the simplified curve A′, the optimal continuous match-
ing places the man at position y within the δ1-disk. The ex-
tended curve A∗intersects the disk boundary exactly at the
auxiliary point y0. By selecting y0 as the discrete state A∗[ik+1],
Omrit: selecting y0 wouldn’t work, you need
to pick the auxiliary point closest to y, no?
v


PDF PAGE 7
the algorithm guarantees that the continuous Fréchet dis-
tance constraint (≤δ1) is strictly maintained, ensuring a
valid path exists in the configuration graph. . . . . . . . . . .
32
7.1
Auxiliary points are linear in practice. Measured |Vaux| for
smooth curves (solid) against the worst-case bound 2m(m −
1) (dashed); logarithmic vertical axis. The fitted slope is 2.00
auxiliary points per vertex. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
42
7.2
Running time against curve complexity, logarithmic verti-
cal axis. Empirical exponents: 3.1 (continuous CPS-3F), 3.9
(discrete CPS-3F). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
43
7.3
(a) The coupling achieved by the joint solution as a fraction
of the budget δ3; all instances lie below the constraint. (b)
The cost in vertices relative to the (infeasible) independent
solution. The baseline’s own violation factor is 1/β by con-
struction and is deliberately not plotted; see Section 7.1.4. . .
45
7.4
Compression against coupling, pooled over all instances.
Good solutions lie to the right of, and below, the dashed
constraint line. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46
7.5
Congestion, not vertex count, determines tractability. At
fixed n = 14, (a) the auxiliary point set per vertex and (b) the
number of valid configurations, against the sampled con-
gestion of the input. Dotted lines mark the average conges-
tion of real data sets from Table 7.2. The shaded region is
where the exact solver no longer terminates.
. . . . . . . . .
47
List of Tables
2.1
Known complexity of global curve simplification (GCS) un-
der n-vertex curves, by Fréchet distance measure and vertex-
placement model. Polynomial-time exact results are shown
in bold. Adapted from [16, Table 1], which also lists the
primary sources for each entry. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
vi


PDF PAGE 8
LIST OF TABLES
vii
2.2
Evolution of Chain Pair Simplification (CPS)
. . . . . . . . .
16
7.1
Comparison of our CPS-2F performance against the discrete
CPS-3F on Protein Backbone datasets. Chain A is fixed as
1o7j.a (length 325) for all comparisons. Baseline results
for the exact discrete Fréchet simplifications (k∗) are refer-
enced from Fan et al. [12]. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
7.2
Congestion of real trajectory data sets, as measured by Gud-
mundsson, Sha and Wong [15, Table 1]. The rightmost col-
umn gives the average number of vertices per curve [15, Ta-
ble 2]. HURDAT2 lies natively inside the size range where
the exact continuous algorithm terminates, while also hav-
ing small congestion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
40
7.3
ampunt of auxilary points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
43
7.4
Joint versus independent simplification on protein backbone
pairs. k = max(|A′|, |B′|); entries marked † violate the cou-
pling constraint ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3. regenerate from real PDB
data: run python -c "import pdb; pdb.download_all()"
then python -m experiments.run protein --target
15 --tables 1, and paste results/protein.tex . . .
46
7.5
Effect of congestion at fixed curve complexity n = 14. The
input size is identical in every row; only the congestion
of the input varies. Congestion values are sampled lower
bounds (Section 7.6). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
47


PDF PAGE 9
1
Introduction
Polygonal curves are fundamental geometric structures used to model
continuous paths and complex trajectories across diverse applied domains.
Their real-world applications range from representing 3D topographic fea-
tures in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and GPS traces of mov-
ing vehicles, to modeling the structural backbones of proteins in compu-
tational biology. Analyzing, compressing, and finding correspondences
between such geometric datasets requires robust mathematical similarity
measures. A traditional metric is the Hausdorff distance. It measures the
maximum distance from a point in one set to the nearest point in the other
set. While useful, the Hausdorff distance treats curves merely as sets of
points in space, completely ignoring the sequential order of the vertices.
Consequently, two structurally distinct paths, such as a tightly wound spi-
ral and a dense zig-zag curve occupying the same spatial region, could
have a very small Hausdorff distance despite being clearly different, even
under translations and rotations (Figure 1.1).
Omrit: Minor: I find this example less convincing because in some
cases it could make sense that two such paths match (for example,
under rotation). I like better the example of a spiral vs. a zig zag
curve (you can add a figure), which are clearly different, even un-
der translations and rotations, and their Hausdorff distance is small.
Galit: Changed
Among the various metrics proposed for curve comparison, the Fréchet
distance has emerged as one of the most prominent and natural measures,
as it inherently accounts for the continuous flow and sequential ordering
of the points along the curves. The Fréchet distance is often described
by an analogy of a man and a dog connected by a leash, each walking
along a curve from its starting point to its end point. Both the man and
the dog can control their speed but they are not allowed to backtrack. The
1


PDF PAGE 10
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
2
dH
Figure 1.1: Two structurally distinct polygonal curves occupying the same
region of the plane: a rectangular spiral (blue) winding inward, and a zig-
zag curve (red) sweeping the region from top to bottom. Although the
curves are visually and structurally very different, their Hausdorff dis-
tance dH (green segment) is small relative to their diameter, on the order
of the winding spacing. The Hausdorff distance treats the curves as un-
ordered point sets, so the fact that the two traversals visit the shared region
in entirely different orders is invisible to it.
Fréchet distance between the two curves is the minimum leash length that
is sufficient for traversing both curves in this manner.
A simpler variant is the Discrete Fréchet distance. Instead of walking
continuously along the segments, the man and the dog behave like frogs,
hopping monotonically from one vertex to the next. While easier to com-
pute, the discrete metric only measures distances between vertices, turn-
ing a blind eye to what happens in the continuous space between them.
The discrete Fréchet distance is considered a good approximation of the
continuous distance.
From a computational standpoint, both variants of the Fréchet distance
can be computed in near-quadratic time. Alt and Godau [3] showed that
the continuous Fréchet distance between two polygonal curves of length
n vertices can be computed in O(n2 log n) time, and the discrete Fréchet
distance admits a simple O(n2)-time dynamic programming solution [11].
Despite considerable effort, these classical bounds have been improved
only by sub-polynomial factors, for the discrete and the continuous vari-


PDF PAGE 11
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
3
ants alike [1, 7]. This is not a coincidence: Bringmann [5] proved that
neither variant can be computed in strongly subquadratic time, that is, in
O(n2−ε) time for any constant ε > 0, unless the Strong Exponential Time
Hypothesis (SETH) fails; see also [6].
Omrit: add a paragraph saying that computing both the con-
tinuous and discrete distances (exactly) can be done in (nearly)
quadratic time, and there are conditional lower bounds... add cita-
tions etc. Then, you can move more naturally to the next paragraph
Galit: Added above, but it is also discussed later in the Previous
Work section, so I’m not sure how to avoid the resulting repetition
However, raw trajectory data is often massive, dense, and corrupted by
noise or redundant sampling. Analyzing, storing, and visualizing such
immense datasets requires massive computational resources.
To make
these tasks computationally tractable, we rely on curve simplification. The
goal of simplification is to reduce the complexity of a curve by drastically
decreasing its number of vertices, while faithfully preserving its original
geometric shape. In this work, we consider the vertex-restricted simplifi-
cation model; that is, a simplification of a curve is defined as a polygonal
curve whose vertices form a subset of the vertices of the original curve,
preserving their sequential order.
When dealing with pairs of curves, independently simplifying two aligned
curves often fails to preserve the similarity between them, as illustrated in
Figure 1.2. Although independent simplification guarantees that each re-
duced curve remains geometrically close to its original form, it entirely
overlooks the synchronization and structural correspondence shared by
the pair.
The Chain Pair Simplification (CPS) problem, introduced by Bereg et
al.[4], addresses this by simplifying both curves simultaneously, subject
to the constraint that the distance between the resulting simplifications is
also bounded.
Omrit: somewhere you should say something about the motivation
for considering CPS: why would we want to simultaneously simplify
curves? the answer can be for example visualization, when we have
two curves and we want to look at them together... look in other pa-
per for applications from biology, or maybe find applications in visu-
alization in GIS, that justify the continuous distance over the discrete
Following the intuition provided by Fan et al.[12], the constrained simpli-


PDF PAGE 12
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
4
Figure 1.2: Comparison of independent simplification versus simultane-
ous Chain Pair Simplification (CPS). While independent simplification
(light dashed lines) minimizes internal error by naively selecting peak ver-
tices, it violates the synchronization constraint. The simultaneous CPS
(dark dashed lines) strategically selects vertices to strictly maintain the
discrete coupling distance, demonstrating the geometric necessity of the
CPS framework.
fication problem can be elegantly grasped by extending the classic Fréchet
analogy. Consider a group of four: a man and his dog walking along curve
A, connected by a leash of length δ1, and a woman and her dog walking
along curve B, connected by a leash of length δ2. Furthermore, to ensure
the resulting simplifications resemble each other, the two dogs are con-
nected to each other by a third leash of length δ3.
The motivation for this problem arises from domains where pairs of corre-
sponding trajectories must be compressed while strictly preserving their
relative spatial relationship. The original motivation comes from struc-
tural biology, specifically the need to compress and compare protein back-
bones (homologous chains of α-carbon atoms) without destroying their
relative spatial proximity [4]. If two close trajectories are simplified in-
dependently, the resulting simplified curves might diverge significantly,
destroying their topological resemblance.
Since the introduction of the CPS framework, its computational complex-
ity has been a subject of intense study. Bereg et al. [4] proved that under
the Hausdorff distance (CPS-2H), the problem is NP-complete. Due to this
hardness, the research community shifted focus to the discrete Fréchet dis-


PDF PAGE 13
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
5
tance.
For years, the complexity of CPS-3F (Chain Pair Simplification under the
discrete Fréchet distance) remained an open question and was widely be-
lieved to be NP-complete. However, a major theoretical breakthrough by
Fan et al.[12] proved that the discrete CPS-3F is actually polynomially
solvable using a dynamic programming approach over a configuration
graph.
Despite this milestone, a critical gap remained. The discrete Fréchet dis-
tance only guarantees proximity at the sampled vertices. Solving the CPS
problem strictly under the Continuous Fréchet distance ensuring spatial
fidelity at every infinitesimal point along the curve segments has remained
a major open challenge. In this thesis we close that gap. We call the result-
ing problem CPS-2F. 1
Galit: added from preliminaries:
1.1
Preliminaries and problem definition
An input polygonal curve A is represented by a sequence of vertices: A =
⟨a1, a2, . . . , am⟩. We can also treat A as a function: A : [1, m] →Rd. The
vertices are A[i] = ai, for integer i and the edge between ai and ai+1 is
A[i, i + 1]. A subcurve from index i to j is denoted by A[i, j].
The Fréchet distance
The continuous Fréchet distance is defined as the infimum, over all mono-
tone reparameterizations of the two curves, of the maximum distance be-
tween matched points. Let A and B be two curves A : [1, m] →Rd and
B : [1, n] →Rd. The continuous Fréchet distance between them is defined
1The naming convention originates with Bereg et al. [4, Sec. 5]. Their problem bounds
d1(A, A′) ≤δ1, d2(B, B′) ≤δ2 and d(A′, B′) ≤δ3, and they set d1 = d2 = dH to obtain
CPS-2H and d1 = d2 = ddF to obtain CPS-3F. The digit therefore counts how many of the
three constraints are governed by the named measure: two under CPS-2H, the coupling
constraint remaining discrete Fréchet, and all three under CPS-3F. Note that Bereg et
al. write dF for the discrete Fréchet distance, since their treatment is entirely discrete;
throughout this thesis dF denotes the continuous Fréchet distance and ddF the discrete
one. The problem studied here sets the two fidelity constraints to dF and the coupling
constraint to ddF, and is named CPS-2F accordingly.


PDF PAGE 14
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
6
as:
dF(A, B) = inf
σ,θ max
t∈[0,1] ∥A(σ(t)) −B(θ(t))∥,
where σ and θ are continuous non-decreasing surjections from [0, 1] to
[1, m] and [1, n], respectively, describing the motion along P and Q. In-
formally, we can think of the parameter t as "time". Then, P(σ(t)) is the
position of the dog and Q(θ(t)) is the position of the man at time t.
From a geometric perspective, stating that dF(A, B) ≤δ is equivalent to
saying that there exist a traversal of the curves such that at any point in
time t, the point on Q lies within a disk of radius δ centered at the corre-
sponding point on P.
The discrete Fréchet distance (ddF) adapts this concept to finite point se-
quences and is naturally defined using a directed free-space graph.
Let A = ⟨a1, . . . , am⟩and B = ⟨b1, . . . , bn⟩be two polygonal curves. For a
given distance threshold δ ≥0, we define the directed grid graph Gδ(A, B) =
(Vδ, Eδ) as follows:
The vertex set Vδ consists of all index pairs (i, j) such that the Euclidean
distance between their corresponding vertices is at most δ:
Vδ = {(i, j) ∈[m] × [n] | ∥A[i] −B[j]∥≤δ}.
The edge set Eδ represents the allowed monotonic steps. A directed edge
exists from (i, j) ∈Vδ to (i′, j′) ∈Vδ if and only if the transition is one of
the three valid forward steps:
(i′ −i, j′ −j) ∈{(1, 0), (0, 1), (1, 1)}.
We say that ddF(A, B) ≤δ if and only if there exists a valid path in Gδ(A, B)
from the start node (1, 1) to the target node (m, n). The discrete Fréchet
distance is then formally defined as the minimum δ for which such a path
exists.
Omrit: briefly explain here how one can use this graph in or-
der to compute the discrete Fréchet distance (or just decide).
This is important for later, because you also construct a graph
and do this dynamic programming to find a cheap path. you
can also mention it here to prepare the reader for section 5
Galit: added below, but need to check
This graph formulation is also how the discrete distance is computed, and
the mechanism is worth stating here because the algorithm of Chapter 5 is


PDF PAGE 15
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
7
built on the same principle. Deciding whether ddF(A, B) ≤δ is a reacha-
bility question on a directed acyclic graph with O(mn) nodes and O(mn)
edges, and is answered in O(mn) time by a single sweep in topological
order, filling a table R[i, j] that records whether (i, j) is reachable from
(1, 1) [11]. Computing ddF itself then follows by binary search over the
O(mn) candidate values ∥A[i] −B[j]∥. Chapter 5 replaces the index pair
(i, j) by a quadruple describing the positions of all four walkers, and re-
places plain reachability by a shortest-path computation, but the shape of
the argument is the one given here: build a directed acyclic graph whose
nodes are the configurations that satisfy the distance constraints, whose
edges are the monotone transitions, and then search it.
Galit: maybe insert:
Fact 1 For any two polygonal curves A and B, dF(A, B) ≤ddF(A, B).
Proof. ...
□
Simplification
Definition 2 (Vertex-restricted simplification) A curve A′ = ⟨A[p1], A[p2], . . . , A[pℓ]⟩
is a vertex-restricted simplification of A = ⟨a1, . . . , am⟩if 1 ≤p1 < p2 < · · · <
pℓ≤m; that is, the vertices of A′ are a subsequence of the vertices of A, in their
original order. Its length is |A′| = ℓ.
Following Bereg et al. [4] and Fan et al. [12], we assume for simplicity that
a simplification retains the first and last vertices of its curve, that is, p1 = 1
and pℓ= m. Remark 11 shows that this assumption is not essential.
1.2
CPS-2F
Given two polygonal curves A and B of lengths m and n, respectively, the
goal is to simplify them simultaneously. We seek two simplified curves,
A′ and B′, such that each of the resulting simplified curves is of length at
most k and the following distance constraints are satisfied:
Omrit: you should say explicitly what you mean by "simpli-
fied curves" (especially in light of the previous work you de-
scribe on simplifications). Vertices? start and end points?
This should also be clear in the defintion in section 2.3


PDF PAGE 16
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
8
1. The discrete Fréchet distance between the simplifications is bounded:
ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3.
2. The simplifications are faithful to the original curves under the con-
tinuous Fréchet distance: dF(A, A′) ≤δ1 and dF(B, B′) ≤δ2
1.3
Contribution of this thesis
• We formulate the continuous-discrete hybrid model, combining con-
tinuous validation for the simplifications (A →A′ and B →B′) with
a discrete coupling constraint between the dogs (A′ ↔B′).
• We prove that by strategically introducing a set of auxiliary points
(Vaux) defined by the intersections of the original curves with δ-constraint
disks, we can capture the infinite continuous space within a finite
discrete framework.
• We present an exact polynomial-time dynamic programming algo-
rithm to solve the Continuous CPS problem, proving that bounding
continuous spatial segments does not render the problem NP-hard.
• We rigorously analyze the practical running time of our algorithm.
We prove that for realistic, c-packed curves, which accurately model
physical trajectories and protein backbones the geometric bounds
drastically prune the search space.


PDF PAGE 17
2
Background and Previous Work
Measuring the similarity between geometric curves is a foundational prob-
lem in computational geometry and related fields with applications rang-
ing from geographic information systems (GIS) to motion tracking, and
computational biology. Over the years, various similarity measures have
been established, each with distinct computational properties and geo-
metric interpretations. The Hausdorff distance (dH) measures the maxi-
mum deviation between two point sets and can often be computed effi-
ciently for polygonal curves; however, it is insensitive to the ordering and
parametrization of the curves. Dynamic Time Warping (DTW), widely
used in time-series analysis, does account for sequential ordering: it mini-
mizes the sum of distances along a monotone alignment of the two vertex
sequences. For two polygonal curves with m and n vertices, the optimal
alignment is computed in O(mn) time by a dynamic program. While DTW
has the advantage of being less sensitive to outliers, its reliance on accu-
mulated distances makes it highly sensitive to the sampling rate of the
trajectories.
Omrit: (a) you did not define m and n, and (b) it does not
"align point sequences in O(mn) time" — there exists an algo-
rithm that does that, similar to the DP for discrete Fréchet...
Omrit: right, but so is the discrete Fréchet distance. DTW
also have the advantage that it is less sensitive to outliers
To overcome these geometric limitations, the Fréchet distance evaluates
the maximum (bottleneck) cost of the traversal rather than the accumu-
lated sum, making it robust to variations in sampling density. The con-
tinuous Fréchet distance (dF) captures both the continuity and ordering
of the curves.
The classical algorithm of Alt and Godau [3] computes
the Fréchet distance between two polygonal curves with m and n edges
in O(mn log(mn)) time. Its discrete variant, the discrete Fréchet distance
9


PDF PAGE 18
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
10
(ddF), restricts the matching to the sampled vertices and can be computed
using dynamic programming in O(mn) time [11]. A third variant, the
weak Fréchet distance dwF, is obtained from the definition of dF by drop-
ping the requirement that the reparameterizations σ and θ be non-decreasing,
so that the two walkers may also move backward.
Omrit: I think that what you want to say here is the following: frechet
is better than hausdorff in capturing similarity for curves because it
takes the order into account. Now, the discrete version of frechet dis-
tance works well if the sampling rate is high, which is the case we as-
sume in this work, because our goal is to deal with highly dense curves.
However, when we want to simplify a curve, what we do is reducing
the number of vertices, and therefor using the discrete distance forces
us to use more points for the simplification. Using the continuous dis-
tance instead of discrete enables us to find more compact representa-
tion of A and B, while the discrete frechet distance between the simpli-
fications remains small (maybe this should be in the intro and not here)
2.1
Similarity Measures for Curves
Among the various metrics, the Fréchet distance has emerged as the stan-
dard measure for curve similarity in computational geometry due to its
ability to respect the monotonic ordering of points along the curves. Fol-
lowing the foundational O(mn log(mn)) algorithm for the continuous Fréchet
distance by Alt and Godau [3], substantial effort was invested in finding
sub-quadratic algorithms. However, Bringmann [5] proved a conditional
lower bound based on the Strong Exponential Time Hypothesis (SETH),
showing that computing the Fréchet distance cannot be done in strictly
strongly sub-quadratic time O(n2−ϵ), for any constant ε > 0, unless SETH
fails.
Given this strict lower bound, the community shifted towards approxima-
tion algorithms and realistic input models. For well-behaved curves, such
as c-packed curves, that is, curves for which the total length contained in-
side any ball of radius r is bounded by cr, near-linear time approximations
for the Fréchet distance have been developed [10]. Driemel, Har-Peled and
Wenk [10] gave a (1 + ε)-approximation of the Fréchet distance running in
near-linear time, O(cn/ε + cn log n).
Omrit:
give
more
de-
tails,
there
is
also
a
lower
bound
Approximation does not escape the barrier entirely. Buchin, Ophelders
and Speckmann [8] strengthened Bringmann’s result to the approximate


PDF PAGE 19
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
11
setting, showing that no strongly subquadratic algorithm can approxi-
mate the Fréchet distance to within a factor better than 3 unless SETH
fails; in the same work they give a linear-time exact algorithm for the
weak Fréchet distance in one dimension. The gap between that lower
bound and what is achievable was closed only recently on the algorith-
mic side: Cheng, Huang and Zhang [? ] gave the first constant-factor ap-
proximation running in strongly subquadratic time, a randomized (7 + ε)-
approximation in O(nm0.99 log(n/ε)) time. Taken together, these results
place constant-factor approximation of the Fréchet distance in strongly
subquadratic time, but rule out approximation factors below 3 in that
regime.
Galit: DO TO: check this paragraph
For general worst-case polygonal curves, then, the quadratic barrier re-
mains a fundamental limitation for exact computation. This bottleneck
is what motivates reducing the geometric complexity of the input before
analysis.
Omrit: Also mention the latest developments on approximation
algorithms: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3717823.3718157,
and other results on conditional hardness:
https://epubs.siam.org/doi/abs/10.1137/1.9781611975482.179
2.2
Curve Simplification
Given the high computational cost of analyzing massive trajectory datasets,
curve simplification seeks to approximate a dense polygonal curve A with
a coarser one A′ while preserving its essential geometry. This reduction,
beyond easing downstream computation, also yields clearer, more legible
visual representations of the trajectory.
The literature typically classifies simplification algorithms based on two
primary optimization goals. The Min-# problem seeks to minimize the
number of vertices in the simplified curve such that the approximation
error does not exceed a predefined error criterion δ. Conversely, the Min-
δ problem aims to minimize the approximation error given a strict budget
k for the maximum number of vertices allowed in the simplification.
Simplification algorithms are further categorized by their geometric flex-
ibility and algorithmic approach. Local simplification, most notably the


PDF PAGE 20
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
12
heuristic Douglas-Peucker algorithm [9], guarantees quality by bounding
the distance between each segment of a simplified curve A′ and its corre-
sponding section of the original curve A. Often, these methods restrict the
simplified curve to be a subsequence of the original vertices. While local
methods are fast and simple, they are not necessarily optimal in terms of
minimizing the number of vertices. In contrast, global simplification im-
poses the distance constraint globally: the entire simplified curve A′ must
be within distance δ of A. This approach yields better compression (fewer
vertices) but is algorithmically more challenging.
Global curve simplification allows for flexibility regarding the placement
of the simplified curve’s vertices. The computational complexity and struc-
ture of the problem depend strongly on where these vertices are allowed
to lie. Following the taxonomy proposed by van de Kerkhof et al. [16], the
literature typically distinguishes between three models:
1. Vertex-restricted (V) - The vertices of the simplified curve A′ must
be selected from the original vertex set of A. In this case, A′ is a sub-
sequence of A.
2. Curve-restricted (C) - The vertices of A’ may be placed anywhere
along the edges of A, provided they respect the order along the curve.
3. Non-restricted (N ) – The vertices of A′ may be placed anywhere in
the ambient space Rd. This is sometimes referred to as the Steiner-
point [13] or weak simplification model [2].
Finally, the computational structure of any simplification problem is in-
herently tied to the chosen similarity measure, whether it be the Hausdorff
distance, the continuous Fréchet distance, or the discrete Fréchet distance
(and their variants).
Table 2.1 summarizes the known complexity landscape for global curve
simplification (GCS) across all three vertex-placement models under the
main Fréchet distance measures, adapted from van de Kerkhof et al. [16,
Table 1]. A recurring, counter-intuitive pattern is that the curve-restricted
(C) model tends to be harder than both the vertex-restricted (V) and the
non-restricted (N ) models, despite occupying an intermediate position in
terms of geometric flexibility [16, Sec. 2.5].
Overall, the computational complexity of curve simplification is jointly
determined by the three design choices introduced above: whether the
fitting criterion is enforced locally or globally, which of the three vertex-
placement models (V, C, or N ) is adopted, and which similarity measure


PDF PAGE 21
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
13
Table 2.1: Known complexity of global curve simplification (GCS) under n-
vertex curves, by Fréchet distance measure and vertex-placement model.
Polynomial-time exact results are shown in bold. Adapted from [16, Ta-
ble 1], which also lists the primary sources for each entry.
Distance
measure
Vertex-
restricted (V)
Curve-restricted
(C)
Non-restricted (N )
dF
O(n3)
weakly NP-hard
(in R2)
(1, 8)-approx.
in
O(n log n);
(2, 1+ε)-approx.
in
O∗(n2 log n log log n)
ddF
O(n2)
O(n3)
O(n log n)
wF
O(n3)
weakly NP-hard
(2, 1+ε)-
approximation
certifies the approximation. Three decades of research have populated
most combinations of these axes with either an exact polynomial-time al-
gorithm or a provable approximation guarantee, tracing out a trade-off
curve between running time and simplification quality: exact algorithms
tend to scale cubically or worse with the curve complexity n, whereas
approximation schemes achieve near-linear running time at the cost of a
bounded-factor loss in simplification quality. We first present the classical
exact results for the vertex-restricted, locally-bounded setting, and then
turn to the near-linear-time approximation schemes that make large-scale
simplification practical.
Godau [14] introduced the first exact algorithms for vertex-restricted lo-
cal curve simplification under the continuous Fréchet distance, running
in O(n3) time for the Min-# problem and O(n4 log n) time for the Min-
δ problem. Bereg et al. [4] later established the discrete analogues, giv-
ing greedy and dynamic-programming algorithms that solve the vertex-
restricted variant in O(n2) time for Min-# and O(n3) time for Min-δ.
Omrit: actually, this can be solved in O(n2 log n) time, see Thm 7.5 here:
https://omrit.filtser.com/files/Omrit_Filtser_Thesis.pdf
For the non-restricted variant, they additionally proposed an O(n log n)-
time algorithm for Min-# and an O(kn log n log(n/k))-time algorithm for
Min-δ [4, Sec. 3–4].


PDF PAGE 22
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
14
Agarwal et al. [2] shifted attention from exact algorithms to near-linear-
time approximation algorithms. Given an error threshold ε, they compute
a simplification with error at most ε whose size is at most the optimal size
under a relaxed threshold of ε/2. This holds for the continuous Fréchet
measure on arbitrary curves in any dimension under Lp metrics; their
Hausdorff result is confined to monotone curves in R2 under the uniform
metric.
Taken together, these results delineate the state of the art for simplifying
a single curve under Fréchet-type distances: cubic-or-worse exact algo-
rithms versus near-linear constant-factor approximations. As Section 2.3
shows, this trade-off becomes considerably more delicate once two curves
must be simplified in synchronization.
2.3
The Chain Pair Simplification Problem
Omrit: I think that this two first paragraph should be in the intro. this sec-
tion should only state the previous and related results, so you can start it
with the work of Bereg et al... (you can start with an opening sentence that
reminds the reader what you say in the intro about what motivated them...
Formally, the problem takes as input a pair of polygonal curves, A and
B with m and n vertices respectively, and an integer budget k, and seeks
to compute their respective simplifications, A′ and B′, each containing at
most k vertices. The quality of the solution is governed by two distance
measures: dsimp evaluates the internal approximation error of each curve,
while dsync measures the mutual spatial proximity between the resulting
simplifications. Given three threshold values δ1, δ2, and δ3, the goal of the
Omrit:
Nice!
I like
this
nota-
tion
CPS problem is to find two simplified curves A′ and B′ such that:
dsimp(A, A′) ≤δ1,
(2.1)
dsimp(B, B′) ≤δ2,
(2.2)
dsync(A′, B′) ≤δ3.
(2.3)
The specific choice of dsimp and dsync, whether it is Hausdorff, discrete
Fréchet, or continuous Fréchet determines the particular variant of the
problem, as summarized in Table 2.2. As is standard in this line of work,
one may equivalently pose the optimization variant, in which k is mini-
mized subject to (2.1)–(2.3), rather than treated as a fixed input to a deci-
sion problem.


PDF PAGE 23
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
15
Bereg et al. [4] first introduced this framework under the Hausdorff dis-
tance (dH), defining the CPS-2H variant. They showed that the vertex-
restricted CPS-2H problem is NP-complete. To circumvent this intractabil-
ity, the research focus naturally shifted toward the discrete Fréchet dis-
tance (ddF), leveraging its sequential matching properties.
To tackle the unknown complexity of the two-sided CPS-3F problem, early
algorithmic efforts focused on simplified models and heuristics. One nat-
ural reduction is the One-Sided CPS variant [12], where only one curve is
simplified (e.g., A is simplified to A′, while B remains completely intact),
and the synchronization is evaluated asymmetrically between A′ and B.
Another approach involved introducing structural constraints: Wylie and
Zhu [17] formulated CPS-3F+, a constrained variant that is polynomially
Omrit:
what
does
it
mean?
which
con-
straints?
solvable and serves as a factor-2 approximation for the general CPS-3F
problem. In contrast, they proved that the structurally constrained Haus-
dorff version (CPS-2H+) remains NP-complete.
A definitive theoretical breakthrough was later achieved by Fan et al. [12],
who counterintuitively proved that the vertex-restricted CPS-3F problem
is not NP-hard, but can be solved exactly in polynomial time. They pre-
sented a dynamic programming algorithm, achieving an O(m2n2 min{m, n})-
time solution for the min-max optimization problem. In the same work,
Fan et al. [12] also introduced the Weighted Chain Pair Simplification
(WCPS-3F) problem. In this variant, vertices of the original polygonal
chains are assigned arbitrary weights, and the objective restricts the to-
tal cumulative weight of the simplified chains rather than strictly bound-
ing their cardinality k. Interestingly, they demonstrated that WCPS-3F is
weakly NP-complete even on a 1D line, driven by a reduction from the set
partition problem.
Building upon this polynomial-time foundation, Fan et al. [13] further
investigated the GCSP (General Chain Pair Simplification) variant.
In
GCSP, A′ and B′ are no longer restricted to the original vertices, allowing
them to utilize arbitrary Steiner points in the plane (the N model). De-
spite the theoretically infinite search space introduced by Steiner points,
they bounded the critical placements of these points, presenting an exact
˜O((n + m)6 min{n, m})-time dynamic programming algorithm for the dis-
crete Fréchet setting (GCPS-3F). However, throughout this evolution, all
exact polynomial-time solutions have strictly relied on the discrete Fréchet
distance, leaving the integration of the continuous Fréchet distance (dF) for
true spatial fidelity as a major open challenge.


PDF PAGE 24
CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND AND PREVIOUS WORK
16
Omrit: [maybe this should come earlier] Think about a motiva-
tion/argument for why our version makes sense. Perhaps something
like this: we still choose points from A and B, and the distance between
A′ and B′ is still the discrete distance, this makes sense for applications
in biology for example. But the aim of a simplification is to make more
accessible visualizations, and to summarizes the data, and using the
discrete distance for measuring how good is the simplification for the
curves makes less sense because it often does not allow a significant sav-
ing... so it makes sense to simplify using the continuous Frechet, to get
shorter curves that visually resemble the original ones, and compare the
simplifications using the discrete distance, because then the alignment
matters and can tell us more about the similarity of the original curves
Table 2.2: Evolution of Chain Pair Simplification (CPS)
Variant
Metric(s)
Model
Computational
Com-
plexity
Ref.
CPS-2H
Hausdorff
V
NP-complete
[4]
CPS-2H+
Constrained Hausdorff
V
NP-complete
[17]
CPS-3F+
Constrained Disc. Fréchet
V
Polynomial
(Factor-2
approx.)
[17]
One-Sided CPS-3F
Discrete Fréchet
V
Polynomial (P)
[12]
WCPS-3F
Discrete Fréchet
V (Weighted)
Weakly NP-complete
[12]
CPS-3F
Discrete Fréchet
V
O(m2n2 min{m, n})
[12]
GCPS-2H
Hausdorff
N
NP-complete
[13]
GCPS-3F
Discrete Fréchet
N
Exact:
˜O((n
+
m)6 min{n, m})
2-Approx: O((n + m)4)
[13]
Hybrid CPS
Cont. & Disc. Fréchet
V
Open (Our work)
–


PDF PAGE 25
3
Discretization of the problem
The exact simplification under the continuous Fréchet distance poses sig-
nificant geometric challenges due to the infinite nature of the search space.
In this chapter, we overcome this barrier by proposing a discretization
scheme. We introduce the concept of an extended curve, which system-
atically enriches the original trajectories with carefully placed auxiliary
points. We then demonstrate how this augmentation allows us to formu-
late an equivalent discrete version of the continuous Chain Pair Simplifica-
tion problem, paving the way for our dynamic programming algorithmic
solution.
3.1
Auxiliary points Vaux and extended curve A∗
To handle the continuous Fréchet distance within a discrete dynamic pro-
gramming, we decompose the continuous domain of curve A into discrete
units using auxiliary points.
Let D(p, r) denote a disk of radius r centered at a point p. We denote
the boundary of D(p, r) by ∂D(p, r). For a given point p and a curve A,
we define Vaux(A, p) as the set of intersection points between the edges of
curve A and the boundary of the disk D(p, δ1). Formally,
Vaux(A, p) = A ∩∂D(p, δ1) =
m−1
[
i=1
(A[i, i + 1] ∩∂D(p, δ1)) .
Alternatively, it can be expressed as the set of points on A at exactly dis-
tance δ1 from p:
Vaux(A, p) = {x ∈A | ∥x −p∥= δ1}.
We define the set of auxiliary points for curve A, denoted as Vaux(A), as
17


PDF PAGE 26
CHAPTER 3. DISCRETIZATION OF THE PROBLEM
18
the union of these intersections over all original vertices of A:
Vaux(A) =
m
[
i=1
Vaux(A, A[i]).
Finally, we define the extended curve A∗as a sequence containing all origi-
nal points of A (i.e., the set of vertices VA) and the auxiliary points Vaux(A),
Omrit:
did
you
de-
fine
VA?
sorted by their order along the curve A. We write m∗= |A∗| and index
it as A∗[1], . . . , A∗[m∗]. The extended curve B∗, of length n∗, is defined
symmetrically from B and Vaux(B).
As point sets in Rd, A∗and A are the same curve: the auxiliary points
are inserted as additional vertices and change no geometry. In particular
A∗[1] = a1, A∗[m∗] = am, and every subcurve A∗[i, i′] is a subcurve of A.
What changes is only the set of indices available to an algorithm.
Remark 3 A segment meets a sphere in at most two points unless the segment
is contained in it, which cannot occur in Rd for d ≥2 and a nondegenerate seg-
ment, and in R1 happens only for a segment of zero length. We therefore assume
throughout that no edge of A is contained in ∂D(A[i], δ1), so that Vaux(A) is
finite.
Observation 4 (Size of the extended curves) |Vaux(A)| ≤2m(m −1), and
hence m∗≤m + 2m(m −1) = O(m2). Symmetrically, n∗= O(n2).
Proof. Each of the m disks D(A[i], δ1) has a boundary that meets each of
the m −1 edges of A in at most two points, by Remark 3. Summing over
the disks gives at most 2m(m −1) auxiliary points, and A∗contains these
together with the m original vertices.
□
The quadratic bound of Observation 4 is attained only by curves that re-
enter the δ1-neighbourhood of their own vertices many times. Chapter 6
shows that on c-packed curves the bound drops to O(cm), and Chapter ??
measures the growth on real and synthetic data, where it is linear.
Galit: (TO DO: check the last statement)
3.2
An Equivalent Discrete Formulation
Let A and B be two polygonal curves, and let δ1, δ2, and δ3 be three given
threshold values. Let A∗and B∗denote the extended curves of lengths m∗


PDF PAGE 27
CHAPTER 3. DISCRETIZATION OF THE PROBLEM
19
and n∗, which include the original vertices (VA, VB) along with the auxil-
iary points Vaux(A) and Vaux(B).
Omrit: A general comment: sometimes when you write, for
example, "(A, B)", you probably mean to say something like
"(i.e., the curves A and B, respectively)" but when you simply
write (A, B) it looks like the mathematical notation for pair...
The goal is to find the shortest simplifications (A′, B′) while maintaining
structural similarity. Formally, we require two simplifications that satisfy
the following distance constraints: dF(A, A′) ≤δ1, dF(B, B′) ≤δ2, and
ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3.
Omrit: This is the original problem, don’t you
want to state here the equivalent discrete version?
We can now state the sense in which the extended curves suffice. The
following lemma is the technical content of the discretization: it replaces
the continuous constraint of Problem ?? by a finite sequence of conditions
indexed by points of A∗.
Lemma 5 (Discretization) Let A′ = ⟨A[p1], . . . , A[pℓ]⟩be a vertex-restricted
simplification of A, with p1 = 1 and pℓ= m. Then dF(A, A′) ≤δ1 if and only
if there exist indices
1 = i1 ≤i2 ≤· · · ≤iℓ= m∗
into the extended curve A∗such that
1.
A∗[ik] −A[pk]
 ≤δ1 for every 1 ≤k ≤ℓ, and
2. dF
 A∗[ik, ik+1], A[pk] A[pk+1]
 ≤δ1 for every 1 ≤k < ℓ.
The symmetric statement holds for B, B′, B∗and δ2.
Proof. We prove the “if” direction here; the converse is deferred, as ex-
plained below. Suppose such indices exist. Condition 2 supplies, for each
k, a monotone matching between the subcurve A∗[ik, ik+1] and the edge
A[pk]A[pk+1] of A′ that keeps matched points within δ1. Consecutive sub-
curves share an endpoint, and consecutive edges of A′ share a vertex,
so these matchings concatenate into a single monotone matching. Since
i1 = 1 and iℓ= m∗, the concatenation covers all of A∗, which as a curve is
A, and all of A′. Hence dF(A, A′) ≤δ1.
□


PDF PAGE 28
CHAPTER 3. DISCRETIZATION OF THE PROBLEM
20
The converse is the substantive direction: it asserts that whenever a con-
tinuous matching exists at all, one exists whose breakpoints can be taken
from the finite set A∗. It is proved as Lemma 9 in Chapter 5, where the
indices ik are constructed explicitly from an optimal continuous matching.
Lemma 5 lets us restate Problem ?? in a form whose search space is finite.
Problem 6 (Discrete CPS-2F) Given the extended curves A∗and B∗and thresh-
olds δ1, δ2, δ3, find index sequences
1 = i1 ≤· · · ≤iℓ= m∗,
1 = p1 < · · · < pℓ= m,
1 = j1 ≤· · · ≤jℓ′ = n∗,
1 = q1 < · · ·
satisfying conditions 1 and 2 of Lemma 5 for (A, A′) at δ1 and for (B, B′) at δ2,
and such that the resulting simplifications A′ = ⟨A[p1], . . . , A[pℓ]⟩and B′ =
⟨B[q1], . . . , B[qℓ′]⟩satisfy ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3, minimizing max{ℓ, ℓ′}.
By Lemma 5, Problem 6 and Problem ?? have the same optimum k∗, and a
solution of either yields a solution of the other.
Remark 7 The reformulation is discrete in its search space, not in its tests. Con-
dition 2 of Lemma 5 is still a continuous Fréchet distance, between a subcurve
of A and a single segment. This is the classical shortcut test, decidable in time
linear in the number of edges of the subcurve by the free-space sweep of Alt and
Godau [3]. What the discretization buys is that only O((m∗)2) such tests are
ever needed, one per candidate pair of breakpoints, rather than a continuum of
them. Chapter 5 organizes these tests as the edges of a directed acyclic graph and
searches it by dynamic programming.


PDF PAGE 29
4
The Configuration Graph
We define a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG), denoted as G = (V, E), which
serves as our configuration graph. The vertices of G represent all possible
configurations of the man, the woman, and their two dogs. An edge in G
represents a single valid step of the configuration quadruple. The problem
is thus reduced to finding a minimal path from the start vertex to the target
vertex in G. Notice that there are no cycles in G because backtracking is
forbidden.
4.1
State Representation and Validity
Each state in the configuration graph is defined by a quadruple of indices:
v = (i, p, j, q).
• Index i indicates the position of Owner A on the extended curve A∗
(at vertex A∗[i]).
• Index p indicates the position of Dog A on the original curve A (at
vertex A[p]), representing a vertex chosen for the simplification A′.
• Index j indicates the position of Owner B on the extended curve B∗(at
vertex B∗[j]).
• Index q indicates the position of Dog B on the original curve B (at
vertex B[q]), representing a vertex chosen for the simplification B′.
A state is considered valid if and only if all leashes remain intact, satisfying
the following distance constraints:
• ∥A∗[i] −A[p]∥≤δ1 (Owner A to Dog A)
• ∥B∗[j] −B[q]∥≤δ2 (Owner B to Dog B)
21


PDF PAGE 30
CHAPTER 4. THE CONFIGURATION GRAPH
22
• ∥A[p] −B[q]∥≤δ3 (Dog A to Dog B)
4.2
State Transitions
We define the rules for transitioning between states. Only forward move-
ment is permitted. A transition edge e = (v, v′) from a state v = (i, p, j, q)
to a subsequent state v′ = (i′, p′, j′, q′) is valid if it meets the following
criteria:
• Progression: All entities either stay in place or advance forward,
such that i ≤i′, p ≤p′, j ≤j′, and q ≤q′.
• Additionally, the transition must satisfy dF(A∗[i, i′], A[p]A[p′]) ≤δ1
and dF(B∗[j, j′], B[q]B[q′]) ≤δ2.
4.3
Cost Function
The cost of a transition is determined by counting how many vertices are
added to the simplifications. If p < p′, a vertex is added to A′, and the
edge weight is wA(e) = 1; otherwise, it is zero. In the same way, if q < q′,
a vertex is added to B′, and the edge weight is wB(e) = 1; otherwise, it is
zero.
Let π be a valid path in G from the start configuration s = (1, 1, 1, 1) to
the target configuration t = (m∗, m, n∗, n) . The total number of vertices
added to A′ and B′ along the path π are given by wA(π) = ∑e∈π wA(e)
and wB(π) = ∑e∈π wB(e), respectively.
Our objective is to find a path π in G from the start to the end that mini-
mizes the expression max(wA(π), wB(π)).
As stated in Definition 2, we assume for simplicity that the first and last
vertices of A′ are a1 and am (respectively, those of B′ are b1 and bn), so that
G has a single initial configuration s and a single final configuration t. It
is easy, however, to adapt the algorithm below to the case where the first
and last vertices of A′ and B′ are not specified; see Remark 11.


PDF PAGE 31
5
A Dynamic Programming Algo-
rithm
For the computation, we utilize an auxiliary array: for each vertex v ∈G,
we maintain an array Xv of size m (assume w.l.o.g. that m ≤n). The entry
Xv[r] represents the minimal number z of jumps required for the dog on
curve B to reach state v, given that dog on curve A has made at most r
jumps. We traverse the vertices in topological order, updating the array
Xv based on Xu for every incoming edge (u, v). The recurrence relation is
formalized as:
Xv[r] = min
(u,v)∈E
(
Xu[r] + wB(u, v)
if wA(u, v) = 0
Xu[r −1] + wB(u, v)
if wA(u, v) = 1
Finally, at the target node t, we compute the optimal sequence length k∗
by evaluating minr max(r, Xt[r]).
Intuitively, this recurrence evaluates all valid previous states u that can
transition to v. If the transition along the edge (u, v) does not require the
dog on A to jump (wA(u, v) = 0), the accumulated number of jumps for
dog A does not change. Thus, we retrieve the minimal cost from Xu[r] and
simply add the cost of dog B’s movement (wB(u, v)). Conversely, if the
transition requires dog A to jump (wA(u, v) = 1), this step consumes one
jump. Therefore, we must look up the optimal cost at state u having used
one fewer jump, which is Xu[r −1], and again add dog B’s cost.
23


PDF PAGE 32
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
24
Algorithm 1: Continuous CPS-2F: Graph Construction
Input: Curves A, B of sizes m, n and extended curves A∗, B∗of
sizes m∗and n∗. Parameters δ1, δ2, δ3.
Output: Graph G = (V, E) and weight functions wA, wB.
// Vertices:
All valid configurations
1 V = {(a∗
i , ap, b∗
j , bq) | 1 ≤i ≤m∗, 1 ≤p ≤m, 1 ≤j ≤n∗, 1 ≤q ≤
n} subject to:
• d(a∗
i , ap) ≤δ1
• d(b∗
j , bq) ≤δ2
• d(ap, bq) ≤δ3
// Edges:
Valid Transitions
2 E = {(u, v) | u = (a∗
i , ap, b∗
j , bq), v = (a∗
i′, ap′, b∗
j′, bq′)} where:
• Topology: i ≤i′, p ≤p′, j ≤j′, q ≤q′
• Continuous check A: dF(A∗[i, i′], ApAp′) ≤δ1
• Continuous check B: dF(B∗[j, j′], BqBq′) ≤δ2
// Define Weights (counting simplification
vertices)
3 For each edge e = (u, v) ∈E:
• wA(e) = 1 if p < p′, else 0.
• wB(e) = 1 if q < q′, else 0.
Return G = (V, E), wA, wB


PDF PAGE 33
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
25
Algorithm 2: Continuous CPS-2F: DP Evaluation
Input: Graph G = (V, E), weight functions wA, wB, start node s,
target node t, and |VA| (size parameter for iterations).
Output: Minimum max-length k∗respecting the simplification
constraints.
1 1. Topological Sort: Sort vertices in V topologically.
2 2. Initialization: For start node s, set X(s)[0] = 0, and X(s)[r] = ∞
for all r > 0. For all other nodes v̸ = s, set X(v)[r] = ∞for all
r ≥0.
3 3. DP on Graph: for each v ∈V in topological order do
4
for r = 0 to |VA| do
5
Xv[r] = ∞
6
for each incoming edge (u, v) ∈E do
7
if wA(u, v) = 0 then
8
Xv[r] = min(Xv[r], Xu[r] + wB(u, v))
9
else
10
if r > 0 then
11
Xv[r] = min(Xv[r], Xu[r −1] + wB(u, v))
12 4. Return: minr max(r, Xt[r]) at the target node t.
Unanchored Endpoints in the Continuous CPS-3F:
During the DP initialization (Step 3 of the algorithm), instead of initial-
izing only a single anchored start node, we initialize the cost arrays for
every s ∈S. Since there are O(mn) configurations in S and each array is of
Omrit:
S is
men-
tioned
in
the
algo-
rithm?
size m, this broad initialization takes O(m2n) total time.
In this case, the DP Execution (Step 4) will now process only the vertices
v /∈S. A critical semantic shift occurs here: the value X(v)[r] now in-
herently represents the minimum number of hops z such that v can be
reached with r hops of A′ and z hops of B′, over all potential initial configu-
rations s ∈S. The algorithm simultaneously explores paths from all valid
starts without maintaining separate trackers.
Finally, in the return step (Step 5), to extract the optimal solution, we eval-
uate the max-length cost for each potential final configuration t ∈T. Cal-
culating the optimal k for a single node t takes O(m) time. Thus, finding
the global minimum k∗= mint∈T minr max(r, Xt[r]) requires O(|T| · m) =
O(m2n) time.


PDF PAGE 34
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
26
Because both the extended initialization and the final extraction steps re-
quire only O(m2n) time, these operations are strictly dominated by the
core DP execution complexity. Consequently, integrating unanchored end-
points naturally evaluates all origin-destination pairs without adding any
asymptotic overhead, preserving the exact running time of the anchored
algorithm.
5.1
Complexity Analysis
To analyze the computational complexity of Algorithms 1 and 2, we eval-
uate the size of the configuration graph G = (V, E) and the time required
for the dynamic programming execution.
Let m = |A| and n = |B| be the number of original vertices of curves A
and B, respectively. Let m∗= |A∗| and n∗= |B∗| denote the number of
vertices in the extended curves, which include the original vertices and
the added auxiliary points. For curve A, the auxiliary points are formed
by the intersections of the m −1 line segments of A with the boundaries
of m disks, D(ai, δ1), centered at each original vertex. Since a line segment
can intersect a circle’s boundary in at most two points, each of the m disks
contributes at most 2(m −1) intersection points. Thus, the total number of
auxiliary points is strictly bounded by 2m(m −1) = O(m2). Consequently,
the size of the extended curve is m∗∈O(m2). By a symmetric argument,
the size of the extended curve B∗is n∗∈O(n2).
Vertex Bound: A valid state in V is defined by the quadruple (i, p, j, q).
The number of possible configurations is bounded by the combinations of
these indices, where 1 ≤i ≤m∗, 1 ≤p ≤m, 1 ≤j ≤n∗, and 1 ≤q ≤n.
Thus, the vertex bound is:
|V| ≤n∗· n · m∗· m = O(n3m3)
Edge Bound: Transitions between states only allow forward monotonic
movement (i.e., i ≤i′, p ≤p′, j ≤j′, q ≤q′). In the worst case, the out-
degree of any vertex is bounded by the total number of forward states,
which is strictly bounded by |V|. Therefore, the total number of edges is
bounded by:
|E| ≤O(|V|2) = O(n6m6)
DP Execution Time: The dynamic programming array Xv[r] has a size of
m for each vertex v ∈V. Processing a node requires iterating over all


PDF PAGE 35
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
27
its incoming edges and updating the array. Thus, the DP algorithm takes
O(|E| · m) = O(m7n6) iterations.
Evaluating the continuous Fréchet distance condition dF(A∗[i, i′], A[p]A[p′]) ≤
δ1 for each transition naively would require O(|A∗|) = O(m2) time per
edge in the configuration graph. This check can be performed in O(m)
time by leveraging the fact that A∗shares the exact geometry of A , there-
fore checking dF(A∗[i, i′], A[p]A[p′]) ≤δ1 is the same as checking dF(A[i, i′], A[p]A[p′]) ≤
δ1 (ignoring the auxiliary points for the check).
In a similar way, evaluating the continuous Fréchet distance condition
dF(B[j, j′], B[q]B[q′]) ≤δ2 would require O(n) time per edge.
Consequently, the overall worst-case time complexity of the algorithm
is bounded by O(m8n7).
While this polynomial bound is theoretically
heavy, the extensive localized pruning enforced by the distance thresh-
olds (δ1, δ2, δ3) ensures a much smaller reachable DAG in practical scenar-
ios. Moreover, we can optimize the continuous Fréchet distance condition
evaluation by a preprocessing step.
We can consider Preprocessing: For each of the O(m2) potential simplifica-
tion segments A[p]A[p′] (1 ≤p ≤p′ ≤m) we compute its Free-Space Di-
agram against the extended curve A∗with respect to δ1 . We can precom-
pute the reachability for all index pairs (i, i′) on A∗in O((m∗)2) = O(m4)
time per segment. The total preprocessing time and space for curve A is
O(m2 · m4) = O(m6). Symmetrically, the preprocessing for curve B takes
O(n6) time. With these lookup tables, the continuous Fréchet validity of
any transition can be queried in O(1) time.
Including both the preprocessing phase and the DP execution, the over-
all worst-case time complexity of the algorithm is O(m7n6 + m6 + n6) =
O(m7n6).
5.2
Proof of Correctness
We prove the correctness of the algorithm by establishing three proper-
ties: any valid path in G corresponds to valid continuous simplifications
(Validity), any valid pair of simplifications corresponds to a valid path in
G (Completeness), and the dynamic programming correctly identifies the
optimal path in G (Optimality).
Lemma 8 (Validity of Path) Any path π in G from the start node s to the tar-


PDF PAGE 36
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
28
get node t uniquely defines a pair of simplifications (A′, B′) such that dF(A, A′) ≤
δ1, dF(B, B′) ≤δ2, and ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3.
Proof. By the construction of V, every node ensures that the discrete leash
constraints are maintained: the dog on A is within δ1 of the man, the dog
on B is within δ2 of the woman, and the two dogs are within δ3 of each
other. Furthermore, the construction of E guarantees continuous validity.
A transition from i to i′ on A∗along with the dog’s step from p to p′ ex-
plicitly enforces dF(A[i, i′], A[p]A[p′]) ≤δ1. Symmetric arguments hold
for curve B. Therefore, concatenating the continuous Fréchet mappings
for all transitions in P yields global valid mappings for both A to A′ and B
to B′. The cost functions wA and wB accurately count the number of new
vertices added to A′ and B′, validating the length bound.
□
Lemma 9 (Completeness of Graph G) Let A and B be two polygonal curves.
If there exist valid simplifications (A′, B′) of lengths |A′|, |B′| ≤k satisfying the
distance constraints:
1. dF(A, A′) ≤δ1
2. dF(B, B′) ≤δ2
3. ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3
then there exists a valid path π in the configuration graph G from the start node
s = (1, 1, 1, 1) to the target node t = (m∗, m, n∗, n) such that the path weights
satisfy wA(π) ≤|A′| −1 and wB(π) ≤|B′| −1.
Omrit: there was something with allow-
ing the simplifications to start anywhere?
Galit: Moved to Remark 11, following the treatment in [12]. The lemma
is stated for the anchored case; the remark explains the adaptation.
Proof. Assume there exists an optimal pair of simplifications (A′, B′) sat-
isfying the required conditions. Let fA, fA′ be the continuous monotone
parameterizations realizing dF(A, A′) ≤δ1 (and symmetrically fB, fB′ for
the curves B, B′). Let W = ⟨(p1, q1), (p2, q2), . . . , (pK, qK)⟩be the valid dis-
crete coupling sequence realizing ddF(A′, B′) ≤δ3.
We construct the path π in G by induction on the steps of the discrete
coupling W. For each step k ∈{1, . . . , K}, we will identify indices (ik, jk)


PDF PAGE 37
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
29
on the extended curves A∗and B∗such that the state vk = (ik, pk, jk, qk) is
a valid node in G, and a valid transition edge exists between vk−1 and vk.
Base Case (k = 1): By the definition of the vertex-restricted simplification
and the discrete coupling, p1 = 1 and q1 = 1. The owners are positioned
at the starting endpoints of A∗and B∗, meaning i1 = 1 and j1 = 1. Since
the endpoints of the curves must be strictly retained and matched, the
distances at these points natively satisfy the constraints. Thus, v1 = s =
(1, 1, 1, 1) is a valid starting configuration in G.
Inductive Step: Assume we have reached a valid configuration vk =
(ik, pk, jk, qk). In the next step of the coupling W, the dogs advance mono-
tonically to (pk+1, qk+1). We must show that there exist corresponding
indices (ik+1, jk+1) such that the transition is valid in G.
Consider curve A (the argument for curve B is symmetric). From the con-
tinuous parameterization dF(A, A′) ≤δ1, there exists a time t when A- dog
reaches the vertex A[pk+1] and the man is at a point y = fA(t) on curve A,
such that ∥y −A[pk+1]∥≤δ1.
We determine the discrete index ik+1 on the extended curve A∗as follows:
1. If y coincides exactly with a point on A∗, we select its index in A∗as
ik+1.
2. If y falls strictly between two discrete points on A∗, we define ik+1
as the index of the most recent auxiliary point on A∗that appears
before or exactly at y. Let this point be y0 = A∗[ik+1].
3. By definition, auxiliary points mark the exact intersections of the
curve A with the disk boundary ∂D(A[pk+1], δ1). Since y lies inside
this disk, the continuous curve must have entered the disk at y0 (or
earlier) and remained inside it up to y. Therefore, the discrete point
y0 satisfies ∥A∗[ik+1] −A[pk+1]∥≤δ1.
Because the man’s continuous path remains entirely within the δ1-disk
of A[pk+1] (or validly transitions between overlapping disks) during the
movement from A∗[ik] to A∗[ik+1], the continuous Fréchet validity con-
straint for the edge transition, dF(A∗[ik, ik+1], A[pk]A[pk+1]) ≤δ1, is inher-
ently satisfied. The symmetric argument provides a valid index jk+1 for
curve B∗.
Omrit: somewhere you should also claim why ik appears
before ik+1 on A? also, add a reference to your figure!


PDF PAGE 38
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
30
This process generates a sequence of valid states (v1, . . . , vK) forming a
connected path π in G. Whenever pk < pk+1 (the dog jumps to a new
vertex), a new vertex is added to the simplification A′, and the transition
weight wA evaluates to 1. The sum of weights wA(π) precisely counts the
number of times the dog advances, which equals |A′| −1. Symmetrically,
wB(π) = |B′| −1. Thus, we have identified a valid path in G whose bottle-
neck cost correctly matches the length of the optimal continuous solution.
□
Lemma 10 (Optimality of DP on G) Algorithm 2 correctly computes min max(|A′|, |B′|).
Proof. We proceed by induction on the topological order of V. Let Xv[r] be
the minimal number of vertices added to B′ such that there exists a valid
path to state v adding exactly r vertices to A′. For the base case (the start
node s), Xs[0] = 0 and ∞otherwise, which is trivially correct. Assume the
claim holds for all topological predecessors of v. When computing Xv[r],
the algorithm considers all incoming edges (u, v). If the transition adds
a vertex to A′ (wA(u, v) = 1), it correctly looks up Xu[r −1] and adds the
cost for B′. If it does not add a vertex to A′ (wA(u, v) = 0), it looks up Xu[r].
Because G is a DAG, all predecessors of v are correctly computed before
v. Minimizing the cost over all incoming edges yields the minimal B′ cost
for the given budget r. Finally, iterating over all possible budgets r at
the target node and taking minr max(r, Xt[r]) inherently yields the optimal
cost.
□
Theorem 1
Algorithm 2 correctly finds the optimal constrained simplifications (A′, B′)
minimizing max(|A′|, |B′|).
Proof. By Lemma 9, the optimal continuous solution exists as a path in
G. By Lemma 10, the dynamic programming algorithm identifies the min-
imum cost path in G. By Lemma 8, this path corresponds to a valid pair
of simplifications. Therefore, the algorithm returns the correct optimal
length.
□
Remark 11 As mentioned, we have assumed that the first and last vertices of
A′ (resp., B′) are a1 and am (resp., b1 and bn), so that we have a single initial
configuration s = (1, 1, 1, 1) and a single final configuration t = (m∗, m, n∗, n).
However, it is easy to adapt our algorithm to the case where the first and last
vertices of A′ and B′ are not specified. In this case, any configuration of the
form (1, p, 1, q) is considered a potential initial configuration, and any configura-
tion of the form (m∗, p, n∗, q) is considered a potential final configuration, where


PDF PAGE 39
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
31
1 ≤p ≤m and 1 ≤q ≤n. Let S and T be the sets of potential initial and final
configurations, respectively; then |S| = O(mn) and |T| = O(mn). We remove
from E all edges entering a potential initial configuration, so that each such con-
figuration becomes a root in the topologically sorted sequence. Then, in Step 2 of
Algorithm 2 we initialize the arrays of every s ∈S, in total time O(m2n), and
in Step 3 we process only the vertices that are not in S. The value Xv[r] for such
a vertex v is now the minimum number z such that v can be reached with r hops
of A′ and z hops of B′, over all potential initial configurations s ∈S. In the final
step we compute minr max(r, Xt[r]) for each potential final configuration t ∈T,
in O(m) time each, and return the smallest value obtained; since |T| = O(mn),
this step takes O(m2n) time. Both modifications are dominated by the running
time of the dynamic program itself, so the running time of the entire algorithm is
unchanged.


PDF PAGE 40
CHAPTER 5. A DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING ALGORITHM
32
A[pk+1]
y = fA(t)
x0 = A∗[ik+1]
A
A′
≤δ1
≤δ1
Figure 5.1: Illustration of the continuous-to-discrete mapping in the Com-
pleteness Lemma. As the dog advances to vertex A[pk+1] on the simpli-
fied curve A′, the optimal continuous matching places the man at position
y within the δ1-disk. The extended curve A∗intersects the disk bound-
ary exactly at the auxiliary point y0. By selecting y0 as the discrete state
A∗[ik+1],
Omrit: selecting y0 wouldn’t work, you need
to pick the auxiliary point closest to y, no?
the algorithm guarantees that the continuous Fréchet distance constraint
(≤δ1) is strictly maintained, ensuring a valid path exists in the configura-
tion graph.


PDF PAGE 41
6
Realistic Scenarios
In the previous chapters, we established the theoretical worst-case com-
plexity of our dynamic programming algorithm. While the polynomial
bounds guarantee an optimal solution, they are heavily influenced by patho-
logical cases, such as trajectories with extreme zig-zags or dense spiral pat-
terns, which force a massive number of auxiliary points (Vaux). However,
real-world data rarely exhibits such worst-case geometric behavior. In this
chapter, we bridge the gap between theoretical and practical efficiency by
introducing the framework of c-packed curves.
6.1
Overview of c-Packed Curves
The concept of c-packedness provides a realistic mathematical model to
capture the behavior of practical trajectories.
Definition: A curve is considered c-packed if the total length of its inter-
section with any disk of radius r (in the plane) is strictly bounded by c · r,
where c is a positive real constant [10].
Galit: TBD: need to add the Cube definition by Gudmundsson, Sha and
Wong: (d-)cubes: the axis aligned cube centred at p whose *half* side
length is r. Their paper states the definition as "the length of the por-
tion of π contained in S is at most cr where r is half the side length of
S", and chooses cubes because the resulting function is piecewise lin-
ear, which balls are not. they provided provide two sub-cubic time
approximation algorithms for the packedness of a polygonal curve
Essentially, the parameter c measures the congestion of the curve. A low
value of c implies a well-behaved curve that travels reasonably straight
and escapes local neighborhoods efficiently, whereas a high value of c in-
dicates dense, highly convoluted movement within small regions.
33


PDF PAGE 42
CHAPTER 6. REALISTIC SCENARIOS
34
The primary motivation for assuming c-packedness is to capture the inher-
ent physical and spatial constraints of real-world moving entities. Most
practical datasets naturally conform to small values of c:
• Vehicle GPS Traces: Cars travel on road networks constrained by
momentum, speed limits, and road geometry. A vehicle will not
drive back and forth infinitesimally within a one-meter radius, en-
suring its trajectory is highly c-packed.
• Animal Movement Data: While foraging animals may exhibit more
erratic movements than vehicles, biomechanical limits prevent them
from accumulating infinite path length within a bounded spatial area.
By adopting the c-packed model, we can filter out theoretical anomalies
and rigorously analyze the algorithm’s performance on inputs that actu-
ally occur in practice.
6.2
Complexity for c-packed Curves
While the worst-case complexity of our dynamic programming algorithm
is highly polynomial, real-world trajectories (such as GPS traces) rarely
exhibit the erratic zig-zag behavior that causes high bound for the number
of auxiliary points (Vaux). To rigorously analyze the algorithm’s practical
performance, we evaluate the complexity under the assumption that the
input curves are c-packed. A curve is c-packed if the length of its intersec-
tion with any ball of radius r is bounded by c · r, when c is a positive real
number. To significantly drop the size of the set of auxiliary points (Vaux),
c-packedness must be coupled with a lower bound on the edge lengths.
Specifically, if the edge lengths are at least Ω(δ1), infinitesimal zig-zags
on the boundary of the constraint disks are eliminated. Depending on the
nature of the input data, we propose two approaches to leverage this geo-
metric property:
Option 1: Exact Algorithm for Well-Separated Samplings
In many practical scenarios, the input curves are naturally c-packed and
their edge lengths inherently satisfy the Ω(δ) lower bound. We can ver-
ify this property in O(n + m) time. When this holds, our DP algorithm
computes the exact optimal simplification with complexity of:
• Vertex Bound: For any original vertex A[p], the curve A can intersect
the boundary of the constraint disk ∂D(A[p], δ1) at most O(c) times.


PDF PAGE 43
CHAPTER 6. REALISTIC SCENARIOS
35
This is because every time the curve enters and exits the disk, it must
traverse a distance proportional to δ1. Since the total length of the
curve inside the disk is bounded by c · δ1, the number of intersections
is O(c). Consequently, each of the m disks contributes O(c) auxiliary
points. The size of the extended curve A∗is therefore reduced from
O(m2) to m∗= m + O(cm) = O(cm). Symmetrically, the size of B∗is
n∗= O(cn). The number of valid states in the configuration graph
G = (V, E) is defined by the combinations of indices (i, p, j, q). Using
the c-packed bounds, the vertex set is bounded by:
|V| ≤m∗· m · n∗· n = O(cm · m · cn · n) = O(c2m2n2)
• Edge Bound: In the worst case, the out-degree of any vertex is bounded
by the total number of forward states, which is strictly bounded by
|V|. Therefore, the total number of edges is:
|E| ≤O(|V|2) = O(c4m4n4)
• Preprocessing Optimization: Computing the continuous Fréchet dis-
tance for all O(m2) potential simplification segments A[p]A[p′] against
the extended curve A∗takes O(c2m2) time per segment. Total pre-
processing drops from O(m6) to O(m2 · c2m2) = O(c2m4) for A, and
symmetrically O(c2n4) time for B.
Total Exact Complexity: The dynamic programming execution requires
processing each incoming edge and updating an array of size m. With the
O(1) continuous Fréchet validity checks provided by our optimized pre-
processing, the DP step takes O(|E| · m) operations. Combining prepro-
cessing and execution yields an overall time complexity of O(c4m5n4). As-
suming comparable lengths (m = O(n)), the total time complexity evalu-
ates to O(c4n9). For small constants c ≥1, this is a dramatic improvement
over the naive worst-case bound while maintaining absolute optimality.
Option 2: (1 + ϵ)-Approximation via Greedy Preprocessing
If the raw input violating the Ω(δ) property, we can actively enforce the
O(c) intersection bound via a preliminary preprocessing step. Using the
greedy simplification algorithm detailed by Driemel et al., we indepen-
dently simplify the input curves with a resolution parameter µ = ϵδ1 (and
symmetrically µ = ϵδ2).
This step eliminates short edges and enforces the O(c) intersection bound,
guaranteeing the efficient execution time of O(c4n9). However, because


PDF PAGE 44
CHAPTER 6. REALISTIC SCENARIOS
36
this preliminary simplification is applied to each curve independently, it
is oblivious to the joint discrete Fréchet coupling constraint (δ3). By the
triangle inequality, the continuous Fréchet constraint on the resulting se-
quences relaxes to δ1 + ϵδ1, yielding a (1 + ϵ)-approximation algorithm:
dF(A, A′) ≤(1 + ϵ)δ1
and
dF(B, B′) ≤(1 + ϵ)δ2


PDF PAGE 45
7
Experimental results
To validate our theoretical findings and assess the practical viability of
our algorithms, we conducted an empirical evaluation using real-world
trajectory data. The primary goals of these experiments were to verify the
runtime feasibility of the exact continuous CPS-2F algorithm, evaluate the
impact of our proposed heuristic approximations, and compare our joint-
simplification approach against existing baselines in terms of compression
quality and topological accuracy.
To evaluate our method, we compared the following four configurations:
1. Independent Simplification (Baseline): We applied a vertex-restricted
simplification to curve A (bounded by δ1) and curve B (bounded by
δ2) separately. This method is completely oblivious to the coupling
constraint δ3.
2. CPS-3F: We implemented the standard Chain Pair Simplification ap-
proach, which ensuring discrete Fréchet constraints between the orig-
inal and simplified curves.
3. CPS-2F: The implementation of our full theoretical algorithm, utiliz-
ing the extended curves A∗and B∗enriched with auxiliary points
(Vaux) to guarantee continuous Fréchet validity.
4. Heuristic Approximation (ϵδ-Simplification): To improve runtime
on highly dense input, we applied a fast greedy preprocessing step
to the input curves with a resolution of µ = ϵδ. The DP was then
executed on these simplified c-packed curves.
Section 7.1 describes the implementation and the dataset and the selected
thresholds δ1, δ2, δ3. Section 7.6 collects the limitations. In addition:
1. Feasibility. Does the exact continuous algorithm run at all on realis-
tic input, and how large does the auxiliary point set actually become
37


PDF PAGE 46
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
38
relative to its quadratic worst case? (Section 7.2)
2. Quality. Does joint simplification buy anything over simplifying the
two curves independently, and over the established discrete CPS-3F
of Fan et al. [12]? What does it cost? (Section 7.4)
3. What actually limits the algorithm.
Having established that the
method works at modest input sizes and fails at larger ones, we ask
what governs the transition. The answer is not the vertex count but
the congestion of the input, the c of the c-packed model, which con-
nects the practical behaviour of the algorithm directly to the realistic-
input model of Driemel et al. [10] and motivates the µ = εδ heuristic.
(Section 7.5)
7.1
Experimental Setup and Datasets
We implemented the dynamic programming configuration graph algo-
rithms in Python. For the real-world dataset, we utilized ....
Table 7.1: Comparison of our CPS-2F performance against the discrete
CPS-3F on Protein Backbone datasets. Chain A is fixed as 1o7j.a (length
325) for all comparisons. Baseline results for the exact discrete Fréchet sim-
plifications (k∗) are referenced from Fan et al. [12].
Baseline CPS-3F [12]
Our CPS-2F
Chain B
|B|
δ1 = δ2
δ3
Discrete k∗
Our k∗
1hfj.c
325
4
1
83
[XX]
1qd1.b
325
4
21
82
[XX]
1toh
325
4
21
84
[XX]
4eca.c
325
4
6
83
[XX]
1d9q.d
297
4
20
82
[XX]
4cea.b
325
4
5
82
[XX]
4cea.d
325
4
5
84
[XX]
**************


PDF PAGE 47
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
39
7.1.1
Implementation
All four configurations were implemented in Python 3 with NumPy. The
continuous Fréchet decision procedure is the free-space sweep of Alt and
Godau [3]; the discrete Fréchet distance is the coupling dynamic program
of Eiter and Mannila [11].
7.1.2
Configurations compared
1. Independent simplification (baseline). Each curve is simplified to
the minimum number of vertices subject only to its own bound, with
no constraint linking A′ and B′. Two variants are run, one enforcing
ddF(A, A′) ≤δ1 and one enforcing dF(A, A′) ≤δ1, so that each joint
solver can be compared against the baseline that enforces the same
fidelity metric it does. Comparing a continuously-constrained solver
against a discretely-constrained baseline would not be a fair compar-
ison.
2. CPS-3F. The algorithm of Fan et al. [12], in which all three constraints
use ddF.
3. Continuous CPS-2F (this work). The exact algorithm of Chapter 5,
using the extended curves A∗, B∗enriched with Vaux to enforce the
continuous constraints dF(A, A′) ≤δ1 and dF(B, B′) ≤δ2.
7.1.3
Data sets
Two application domains are used, chosen so that the evaluation is not
specific to one geometry.
Protein backbones (R3).
The historical motivation for chain pair simpli-
fication [4]. We use the manifest of Fan et al. [12]: the reference chain
1o7j.A against each of the comparison chains. Chains are subsampled to
a runnable size and superposed after subsampling, so that the rigid trans-
form is fitted to the points the solver actually sees.
Trajectory data (R2).
For the congestion study of Section 7.5 a data set of
known congestion is required. Gudmundsson, Sha and Wong [? ] mea-
sured the approximate congestion of sixteen real trajectory data sets; Ta-


PDF PAGE 48
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
40
ble 7.2 reproduces the entries relevant here. The HURDAT2 Atlantic hur-
ricane database [? ] is the natural choice, for three independent reasons:
its curves average 27.7 vertices, its average congestion is 3.24, so it is gen-
uinely c-packed for a small constant; Comparing the tracks of two storms
is moreover a natural instance of the chain pair simplification problem:
two curves that already resemble one another and whose resemblance
must survive simplification.
Table 7.2: Congestion of real trajectory data sets, as measured by Gud-
mundsson, Sha and Wong [15, Table 1]. The rightmost column gives the
average number of vertices per curve [15, Table 2]. HURDAT2 lies na-
tively inside the size range where the exact continuous algorithm termi-
nates, while also having small congestion.
Data set
min c
max c
avg c
avg |π|
Vessel-Y
2.37
14.28
3.03
155.2
Hurdat2
2.00
16.58
3.24
27.7
Bats
1.08
29.52
3.60
44.1
Basketball
2.00
48.65
3.95
44.1
Vessel-M
1.04
46.19
4.66
23.0
Pen
4.07
20.82
8.79
119.8
Bus
3.21
34.99
14.70
446.6
Geolife
1.02
858.19
23.31
1332.5
Taxi
2.20
4255.23
55.38
343.0
Cats
6.04
1122.77
207.86
526.1
Seabird
5.59
1803.72
825.57
3175.8
Hurricane tracks.
The tracks are taken from HURDAT2, the best-track
database of the NOAA National Hurricane Center [? ? ]: the Atlantic file
hurdat2-1851-2015-070616.txt (seasons 1851–2015) and the North-
east and North Central Pacific file hurdat2-nepac-1949-2015-050916.txt
(seasons 1949–2015), in the CSV conversion of Bilogur [? ]. Each track is
the complete best track of one storm, with all its records in time order: the
six-hourly positions, 577 records at non-synoptic times in 336 of the tracks


PDF PAGE 49
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
41
(531 of them landfalls), and every stage of the system, including extratrop-
ical and remnant-low stages (12.6% of the records). Tracks that cross the
antimeridian or have fewer than 25 positions are removed, as are repeated
consecutive positions, leaving 840 Atlantic and 455 Pacific tracks with 25
to 133 vertices (median 36). Positions are mapped to the plane by the az-
imuthal equidistant projection on a sphere of radius 6371.0088 km, centred
at 25◦N, 60◦W for the Atlantic and at 18◦N, 120◦W for the Pacific, so the
tracks of each basin share one frame in kilometres.
Packedness.
For every track we report c⃝, defined with discs as by Driemel
et al. [10], and c□, defined with axis-parallel squares as by Gudmundsson
et al. [15]. Each value is the largest ratio |π ∩H|/r over squares or discs
H of radius r centred at a vertex of π. Gudmundsson et al. show that for
squares this maximum is at least half the packedness, and their argument
applies unchanged to discs. For each centre the ratio is evaluated at the
distance to every vertex, at the smallest distance to every edge, and on a
geometric grid of radii with ratio 1.02, from 10−3 times the extent of the
track up to its extent. Every value is therefore attained by an actual square
or disc, and the packedness is at most 2 · 1.02 times the value. For squares,
recomputing the maximum over the complete set of event radii of Gud-
mundsson et al., which gives exactly their 2-approximation, changes no
value by more than 0.86%. The value of c□depends on the orientation of
the coordinate axes, while c⃝does not.
7.1.4
Choice of thresholds
We therefore fix a single protocol and apply it uniformly. Let sA denote
the mean distance between consecutive vertices of A, and let cindep denote
the coupling distance ddF(A′, B′) that the independent baseline actually
attains at those thresholds. Then
δ1 = α sA,
δ2 = α sB,
(7.1)
δ3 = β cindep,
(7.2)
with α ∈[0.5, 0.8] and β < 1. Taking α < 1 permits a simplification edge to
deviate from the original by less than one inter-vertex step, which allows
genuine compression without letting the curve collapse.
Equation (7.2) requires comment, since it defines δ3 in terms of the base-
line’s own performance. Its purpose is to guarantee that the coupling con-
straint is active: since β < 1, the independent baseline provably violates


PDF PAGE 50
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
42
δ3, so there is something for joint simplification to repair. The immediate
consequence is that the baseline’s violation factor is exactly 1/β on every
instance by construction. We stress this because it means that factor is not
an experimental finding and is not reported as one. What is genuinely
measured, and is not determined by the protocol, is: (i) whether a feasible
joint solution exists at that δ3 at all, and (ii) how many additional vertices
it costs. Both are reported in Section 7.4. The value of β also controls how
many instances remain feasible; we report the attrition rate alongside ev-
ery table.
7.2
Feasibility and the Cost of Auxiliary Points
The first question is whether the discretisation is affordable. The theo-
retical bound |Vaux| ≤2m(m −1) is quadratic, and if it were tight the
algorithm would be unusable at any interesting size.
It is not tight on well-behaved curves. Figure 7.1 plots the measured |Vaux|
against the worst-case bound for smooth curves of increasing complexity.
The growth is linear, with a fitted slope of 2.00 auxiliary points per vertex,
so the extended curve A∗carries roughly 3m vertices rather than O(m2):
at m = 30 the measured |Vaux| is 58 against a worst-case bound of 1740,
a factor of 30 below. The quadratic bound is attained only by curves that
repeatedly re-enter the δ1-neighbourhood of their own vertices — which
is precisely the behaviour that Section 7.5 identifies as the true obstacle.
Figure 7.1: Auxiliary points are linear in practice. Measured |Vaux| for
smooth curves (solid) against the worst-case bound 2m(m −1) (dashed);
logarithmic vertical axis. The fitted slope is 2.00 auxiliary points per ver-
tex.
Running time is reported in Figure 7.2. Fitting a power law to the mea-
sured times gives an empirical exponent of 3.1 for the continuous solver
and 3.9 for the discrete one, both far below their respective worst-case
bounds — again a consequence of the configuration graph being heavily
pruned by the three thresholds. The continuous solver is roughly 2–3×
slower than the discrete one at equal n, which is the price of the extended
curves and the per-transition continuous Fréchet checks.
Extrapolating the fitted curve places the exact continuous solver at a few
seconds for n ≈25–30. In practice, however, the binding limit at these


PDF PAGE 51
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
43
Table 7.3: ampunt of auxilary points.
Protein pair (A /
B)
|A|
|B|
Auxiliary
points A
Theoretical
Auxil-
iary
points A
Auxiliary
points B
Theoretical
Auxil-
iary
points B
1o7j.a / 1hfjc
22
22
162
924
155
924
1o7j.a / 1qd1.b
22
22
159
924
196
924
1o7j.a / 1toh.a
22
22
155
924
135
924
1o7j.a / 4eca.c
22
22
165
924
148
924
1o7j.a / 1d9q.d
22
22
150
924
174
924
1o7j.a / 4eca.b
22
22
165
924
152
924
1o7j.a / 4eca.d
22
22
165
924
152
924
1o7j.a / 3ntx.a
22
22
163
924
158
924
1o7j.a / 1wls.a
22
22
159
924
152
924
1o7j.a / 2eq5.a
22
15
154
924
88
420
1o7j.a / 2zsk.a
22
16
162
924
110
480
1o7j.a / 1zq1.a
22
29
152
924
228
1624
1o7j.a / 3jq0.a
22
31
163
924
232
1860
1o7j.a / 2fep.a
22
18
159
924
130
612
Figure 7.2: Running time against curve complexity, logarithmic vertical
axis. Empirical exponents: 3.1 (continuous CPS-3F), 3.9 (discrete CPS-3F).


PDF PAGE 52
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
44
sizes is memory rather than time: the dynamic program stores a table in-
dexed by the valid configurations, and on a 4 GB machine that table ex-
hausts available memory before any time limit is reached. This is why
Section 7.5 is necessary — the size of that table is not governed by n alone.
***************
7.3
Results and Discussion
Feasibility and the Role of Auxiliary Points: Our first objective was to
test if the exact continuous algorithm can practically run on real data......
Simplification Length (k∗): We compared the optimal simplification length,
k∗, achieved by each method. The Independent Simplification frequently
achieved a very small k, but measurements revealed that it consistently
violated the δ3 discrete Fréchet coupling constraint.
Section 7.1 describes the implementation, the data, and — at some length,
because it is the single methodological choice most capable of invalidating
the results — the protocol by which the thresholds δ1, δ2, δ3 are selected.
Section 7.6 collects the limitations.
7.4
Simplification Quality
7.4.1
Independent simplification breaks the coupling
The premise of chain pair simplification is that simplifying two curves
separately destroys their resemblance. Table 7.4 quantifies this. The in-
dependent baseline achieves the smallest k - it is solving a strictly less
constrained problem, so this is expected and is not evidence against it.
The informative comparison is therefore not the violation factor but its
price. Across all instances, restoring feasibility cost zero or one additional
vertex relative to the infeasible baseline solution, while the achieved cou-
pling landed well inside the budget, with a ratio ddF(A′, B′)/δ3 typically
between 0.1 and 0.75 rather than marginally under 1. Figure 7.3 shows
both quantities.


PDF PAGE 53
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
45
T1-1toh.a
T1-4eca.c
T1-4cea.d
c=2
c=4
helix-10
helix-12
helix-14
synth-bb-0
synth-bb-1
synth-bb-2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
ddF(A′, B′) /
3
3 budget
(a) Joint solution stays inside the budget
T1-1toh.a
T1-4eca.c
T1-4cea.d
c=2
c=4
helix-10
helix-12
helix-14
synth-bb-0
synth-bb-1
synth-bb-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
k = max(|A′|, |B′|)
(b) 
at little or no cost in vertices
Independent (infeasible)
Continuous CPS-3F
The independent baseline violates the coupling by 1/ by construction; what is measured is the joint solver's margin and its price
Figure 7.3: (a) The coupling achieved by the joint solution as a fraction
of the budget δ3; all instances lie below the constraint. (b) The cost in
vertices relative to the (infeasible) independent solution. The baseline’s
own violation factor is 1/β by construction and is deliberately not plotted;
see Section 7.1.4.
7.4.2
Continuous versus discrete joint simplification
Against the discrete CPS-3F of Fan et al., two differences emerge.
Compression.
Because dF ≤ddF pointwise, the continuous fidelity con-
straint is strictly weaker, so a given δ1 admits more simplifications. The
continuous solver consequently attains substantially higher compression
at the same thresholds: a median of 33% against 0% for the discrete solver
on the instances tested, where the discrete constraint was frequently tight
enough to force A′ = A.
Feasibility.
The same inequality implies that every discrete-feasible in-
stance is continuous-feasible, and that some continuous-feasible instances
are discrete-infeasible. This was observed: on instance 4eca.c the dis-
crete solver reported infeasibility while the continuous solver returned a
valid solution with k = 8. The converse never occurred, as it cannot with-
out contradicting dF ≤ddF; the experimental harness checks for it explic-
itly and treats it as an implementation error rather than a finding.
Figure 7.4 summarises the three-way comparison in a single view. A good
solution lies to the right (high compression) and below the dashed line


PDF PAGE 54
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
46
(coupling satisfied). Only the proposed method occupies that region: the
independent baseline compresses well but always violates, and the dis-
crete joint solver satisfies the constraint but barely compresses.
Figure 7.4: Compression against coupling, pooled over all instances. Good
solutions lie to the right of, and below, the dashed constraint line.
Table 7.4:
Joint versus independent simplification on protein back-
bone pairs. k = max(|A′|, |B′|); entries marked † violate the coupling
constraint ddF(A′, B′)
≤
δ3.
regenerate from real PDB data:
run
python -c "import pdb; pdb.download_all()"
then
python
-m experiments.run protein --target 15 --tables 1,
and
paste results/protein.tex
Independent
Continuous CPS-3F (ours)
Pair
δ3
k
ddF(A′, B′)
k∗
ddF(A′, B′)
compr.
rows
7.5
Congestion, not Size, is the Binding Constraint
Section 7.2 showed that the algorithm terminates at modest n and fails
beyond it, and that the failure is one of memory. This section identifies
what actually governs that transition, and the answer connects the empir-
ical behaviour of the algorithm to the realistic-input model under which
c-packed curves were introduced.
Recall that a curve π is c-packed if the length of π inside any ball of radius
r is at most c r; the congestion of π is the smallest such c [10? ]. Intuitively
it measures how much the curve doubles back within a small neighbour-
hood.
The connection to our construction is direct. By Definition ??, Vaux(A)
consists of the points at which A crosses the sphere of radius δ1 about
one of its own vertices. A curve with high congestion re-enters such a
neighbourhood many times, so each sphere is crossed repeatedly and |A∗|
grows accordingly. Congestion should therefore control the size of the


PDF PAGE 55
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
47
extended curves — and hence, quadratically, the size of the configuration
graph — independently of the vertex count.
Table 7.5 and Figure 7.5 confirm this. Holding n = 14 fixed and varying
only the congestion of the input, the number of auxiliary points per ver-
tex rises from 1.8 to 13.0 and the number of valid configurations rises by
nearly three orders of magnitude. The solver terminates in about one sec-
ond at c ≈2–4, times out at c ≈8, and exhausts memory at c ≳15 — at
constant input size.
Table 7.5: Effect of congestion at fixed curve complexity n = 14. The input
size is identical in every row; only the congestion of the input varies. Con-
gestion values are sampled lower bounds (Section 7.6).
Congestion c
|Vaux|/m
configurations
outcome
2.5
1.8
2 684
solved, 0.95 s
4.0
1.9
228
solved, 1.32 s
8.0
4.3
17 292
timeout
15.0
8.9
44 918
memory exhausted
21.4
13.0
1 868 184
memory exhausted
Figure 7.5: Congestion, not vertex count, determines tractability. At fixed
n = 14, (a) the auxiliary point set per vertex and (b) the number of valid
configurations, against the sampled congestion of the input. Dotted lines
mark the average congestion of real data sets from Table 7.2. The shaded
region is where the exact solver no longer terminates.
Three consequences follow.
The exactly-solvable regime is the low-congestion regime.
This is not
merely an observation about our implementation. The congestion attain-
able by a curve of n vertices is itself bounded — folding length into a small
ball costs vertices — and we measure a ceiling of roughly c ≤21 at n = 14
and c ≤42 at n = 30. Conversely, the high-congestion data sets of Ta-
ble 7.2 (Cats, c = 208; Seabird, c = 826) consist of curves with hundreds
to thousands of vertices. The two limits therefore reinforce rather than


PDF PAGE 56
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
48
merely coincide: input on which the exact algorithm can run is necessar-
ily input that the c-packed model describes well. This justifies the choice
of HURDAT2 in Section 7.1.3 on principled rather than merely pragmatic
grounds.
It explains the memory wall.
The configuration graph is indexed by
(i, p, j, q) with i ranging over A∗and j over B∗, so its size scales with
|A∗| · |B∗|. Since congestion inflates both factors, the state count grows
quadratically in congestion at fixed n, which is exactly the growth ob-
served in Figure 7.5(b).
It motivates the heuristic.
The µ = εδ preprocessing step of Chapter ??
is precisely a congestion reduction: the greedy µ-simplification of Driemel
et al. [10] removes exactly the local doubling-back that inflates Vaux, and
the bound N≤δ(simpl(X, εδ), simpl(Y, εδ)) = O(cn/ε) is the theoretical
statement of the same phenomenon we measure here. The experiments
thus supply the empirical motivation for the heuristic that the theory alone
does not: without it, the exact algorithm is limited not by input size but by
input congestion.
Add the heuristic (µ = εδ) as a fourth configuration and report the same
table, showing that it restores tractability at high c. Run: python -m
experiments.run cpacked once the heuristic solver is registered in
experiments/runner.py.
7.6
Threats to Validity
Instance sizes are small.
The exact continuous algorithm was run at n ≤
42. The published results of Fan et al. [12] are for full ∼325-vertex chains.
The numbers reported here are therefore not directly comparable to theirs.
What is compared is the relative behaviour of the four configurations on
identical instances.
Congestion values are sampled lower bounds.
Computing congestion
exactly requires minimising sums of square roots and is not available in
the standard RAM model [? ]. Our estimator maximises the ratio over a
finite set of ball centres and radii and is therefore a lower bound, not a cer-
tified approximation. Constant-factor algorithms exist [? ? ] and would be


PDF PAGE 57
CHAPTER 7. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
49
the appropriate replacement for a quantitative study of congestion itself;
for the qualitative claim of Section 7.5 — that cost is monotone in conges-
tion — a lower bound suffices, since it can only understate the effect.
δ3 is defined relative to the baseline.
As set out in Section 7.1.4, the base-
line’s violation factor is therefore determined by the protocol rather than
measured. The reported findings — existence of a feasible joint solution
and its cost in vertices — do not share this property.
Once the real data has been run, state here the fraction of instances on
which the joint solver was infeasible, and at which β.


PDF PAGE 58
8
Conclusion
Your text here
1. a summary of the thesis (the results): in this thesis we shoewd that....
2. future work, open problems....
reduce running time, all continu-
ous,...
50


PDF PAGE 59
Bibliography
[1] AGARWAL, P. K., BEN AVRAHAM, R., KAPLAN, H., AND SHARIR,
M. Computing the discrete Fréchet distance in subquadratic time.
SIAM Journal on Computing 43, 2 (2014), 429–449.
[2] AGARWAL, P. K., HAR-PELED, S., MUSTAFA, N. H., AND WANG, Y.
Near-linear time approximation algorithms for curve simplification.
Algorithmica 42, 3-4 (2005), 203–219.
[3] ALT, H., AND GODAU, M.
Computing the Fréchet distance be-
tween two polygonal curves. International Journal of Computational
Geometry & Applications 5, 01n02 (1995), 75–91.
[4] BEREG, S., JIANG, M., WANG, W., YANG, B.,
AND ZHU, B.
Simplifying 3d polygonal chains under the discrete Fréchet dis-
tance. In LATIN 2008: Theoretical Informatics, 8th Latin American
Symposium, Búzios, Brazil, April 7-11, 2008, Proceedings (2008),
Springer, pp. 630–641.
[5] BRINGMANN, K.
Why walking the dog takes time: Fréchet dis-
tance has no strongly subquadratic algorithms unless seth fails.
In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS) (2014), IEEE, pp. 661–670.
[6] BRINGMANN, K., AND MULZER, W. Approximability of the discrete
Fréchet distance. Journal of Computational Geometry 7, 2 (2016), 46–
76.
[7] BUCHIN, K., BUCHIN, M., MEULEMANS, W., AND MULZER, W. Four
Soviets walk the dog- improved bounds for computing the Fréchet
distance. Discrete & Computational Geometry 58, 1 (2017), 180–216.
[8] BUCHIN, K., OPHELDERS, T., AND SPECKMANN, B.
SETH says:
Weak Fréchet distance is faster, but only if it is continuous and in
51


PDF PAGE 60
BIBLIOGRAPHY
52
one dimension.
In Proceedings of the 30th Annual ACM-SIAM
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA 2019) (2018), SIAM,
pp. 2887–2899. arXiv:1807.08699.
[9] DOUGLAS, D. H., AND PEUCKER, T. K. Algorithms for the reduction
of the number of points required to represent a digitized line or its
caricature. Cartographica: The International Journal for Geographic
Information and Geovisualization 10, 2 (1973), 112–122.
[10] DRIEMEL, A., HAR-PELED, S., AND WENK, C. Approximating the
fréchet distance for realistic curves in near linear time. Discrete &
Computational Geometry 48, 1 (2012), 94–127.
[11] EITER, T., AND MANNILA, H. Computing discrete Fréchet distance.
Tech. rep., Technical Report CD-TR 94/64, Christian Doppler Labora-
tory for Expert Systems, TU Vienna, 1994.
[12] FAN, C., FILTSER, O., KATZ, M. J., WYLIE, T., AND ZHU, B. On the
chain pair simplification problem. In Algorithms and Data Structures
- 14th International Symposium, WADS 2015, Victoria, BC, Canada,
August 5-7, 2015. Proceedings (2015), Springer, pp. 351–362.
[13] FAN, C., FILTSER, O., KATZ, M. J., AND ZHU, B. On the general
chain pair simplification problem. In 41st International Symposium
on Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science, MFCS 2016,
Kraków, Poland, August 22-26, 2016 (2016), pp. 37:1–37:14.
[14] GODAU, M. A natural metric for curves—computing the distance
for polygonal chains and approximation algorithms.
In Annual
Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS)
(1991), Springer, pp. 127–136.
[15] GUDMUNDSSON, J., SHA, Y., AND WONG, S.
Approximating the
packedness of polygonal curves.
Computational Geometry 108
(2023), 101920.
[16] VAN
DE
KERKHOF,
M.,
KOSTITSYNA,
I.,
LÖFFLER,
M.,
MIRZANEZHAD, M.,
AND WENK, C.
Global Curve Simplifica-
tion.
In 27th Annual European Symposium on Algorithms (ESA
2019) (2019), Schloss Dagstuhl-Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik,
pp. 67:1–67:14.


PDF PAGE 61
BIBLIOGRAPHY
53
[17] WYLIE, T., AND ZHU, B. Protein chain pair simplification under the
discrete Fréchet distance. IEEE ACM Trans. Comput. Biol. Bioinform.
10, 6 (2013), 1372–1383.


PDF PAGE 62
תוכן עניינים
1מבוא1
9עבודות קודמות2
17דיסקרטיזציה3
18
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ניסוח דיסקרטי שקול3.2
21גרף קונפיגורציות4
50סיכום8
ii


PDF PAGE 63
תקציר
תקציר בעברית כאן.
i


PDF PAGE 64
האוניברסיטה הפתוחה
המחלקה למתמטיקה ולמדעי המחשב
גישה רציפה לבעיית פישוט זוג עקומות
עבודת תזה זו הוגשה כחלק מהדרישות לקבלת תואר
במדעי המחשבM.SC.״מוסמך למדעים״
באוניברסיטה הפתוחה
המחלקה למתמטיקה ומדעי המחשב
על־ידי
גלית גוזולצני
בהנחיית ד״ר עומרית פילצר
2026יולי
